Create a how-to guide for hardening instructions (#308)
canonical/anbox-cloud-docs: howto/anbox/harden.md

(howto-harden)=
# How to harden your deployment

> Anbox Cloud is secure by design, however, there are certain aspects of the deployment that you need to harden to ensure security.

Reviewer: This is a bit surprising to read in my opinion.
We start with stating that Anbox is secure, we then have the 'however' adverb marking an opposition, and we then state that there are steps the user needs to take to 'ensure security'.

To me, this reads a bit contradictory, and it reads a bit like: "we are _secure_, but actually, you need to take steps to be _truly_ secure".
Sure, this is a bit what hardening is about, and this is about the deployment, not the software itself, but...

I apologize if this comes a bit too negative, and I also don't have a good suggestion for a different way to phrase this.

Author: I agree and I would argue both phrases are true. We are secure by design - to the extent of what we can control.
But if the customer exposes something that should not be, that's going to cause a threat. 

If you feel this is giving mixed signals to the cognition, we could make it read:

Anbox Cloud is designed with secure development practices but there are certain aspects to consider on your side to make sure the entire deployment is secure.... 

WDYT?

Reviewer: I like that version much better, but this may be pretty subjective.

## Reduce attack surface

The following diagram illustrates the attack surface and potential points of threat.

![Anbox Cloud attack surface|690x398](/images/anbox_attack_surface.svg)

The threat points are:

> ### 1 - Web client

Reviewer 2: There is nothing in particular which comes to my mind here.

However we should mention the OS level and maybe reference other parts of the Ubuntu Pro offering, e.g. livepatch/usg/cis (https://documentation.ubuntu.com/pro/pro-client/enable_cis/)

Reviewer 2: We can maybe mention here that gateway API tokens should never used in the client and communication with the gateway / authentication need to come through an intermediate service, e.g. see https://documentation.ubuntu.com/anbox-cloud/tutorial/stream-client/

### 2 - Instances: Limit exposed ports and services
Limit the ports and services that you expose over the network. {ref}`ref-network-ports` lists the ports that are exposed externally by default. If your deployment exposes additional ports for communication between components, consider other ways the communication channel can be implemented without exposing more ports.

Disable services on inactive instances. The ideal scenario is to never expose an Anbox cloud service over the internet. Instead, use a proxy.

Exposing service endpoints is typically required when the instance needs to communicate with the service. Design your deployment to allow the instance to reach out and communicate with the control plane.

> ### 3 - AMC

Reviewer 2: Not sure what we need to record for amc, @canonical/anbox any idea?

Reviewer 2: One aspect we can add is to protect/backup

* `$HOME/snap/amc/current/client`
* `$HOME/snap/anbox-cloud-appliance/current/client`

as it contains the TLS client certificate and key used to access the AMS API.

### 4 - Stream gateway

### 5- TURN/STUN server

> If you are using the streaming stack, use STUN server wherever possible and disable TURN.

Reviewer 3: I feel that the above sentence may not be entirely accurate or might sound too strong. I'd suggest:
```
Use STUN wherever applicable. However, TURN may be required in restricted network environments (e.g., enterprise firewalls, mobile networks) where a peer-to-peer connection is not possible.
```

Reviewer 3: @morphis would you mind commenting on this as well?

> Keep in mind that irrespective of which server you use, using a public TURN/STUN server expands the attack surface.

Reviewer 3: using a public TURN/STUN server expands the attack surface.
->
using a public TURN/STUN server expands the attack surface. Hence consider using the built-in TURN/STUN server provided with the Anbox Cloud deployment for better security.

(howto-harden)=
# How to harden your deployment

Anbox Cloud is designed with secure development practices but there are certain aspects to consider on your side to make sure the entire deployment is secure.

## General guidelines

Consider the following simple yet impactful measures to ensure that you run a secure Anbox Cloud deployment:

- Always run the latest supported version of Anbox Cloud and keep your deployment up to date. See {ref}`ref-release-notes`.
- Make sure your deployment uses machines running a supported Ubuntu version. See {ref}`ref-requirements`.

> - Do not disable TLS pinning when you are not using a load balancer.

Reviewer 2: This is rather unspecific, shouldnt we put this into context of the instance to stream agent communication?

- If you find a security issue, report it to the [Ubuntu security team](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/FAQ#Contact).

## Reduce attack surface

The following diagram illustrates the attack surface and potential points of threat.

![Anbox Cloud attack surface|690x398](/images/anbox_attack_surface.svg)

### 1 - Web client

> - Make sure you have `CIS/USG` and Livepatch enabled on Ubuntu Pro. See {ref}`enable Livepatch <https://documentation.ubuntu.com/pro/pro-client/enable_livepatch/>` and {ref}`enable CIS or USG <https://documentation.ubuntu.com/pro/pro-client/enable_cis/>` for more information.

Reviewer 2: Only enabling CIS or USG is not enough, you also have to apply both up to a profile which satisfies the users requirements. Maybe we should put it more in the way of that people should consider both to further harden their systems?

- Use the {ref}`exp-web-dashboard` as your default stream client. If you want to use a custom client, ensure you have set it up securely as described in the {ref}`tut-set-up-stream-client` tutorial.

### 2 - Instances

- Limit the ports and services that you expose over the network. {ref}`ref-network-ports` lists the ports that are exposed externally by default. If your deployment exposes additional ports for communication between components, consider other ways the communication channel can be implemented without exposing more ports.

>   Disable services on inactive instances. The ideal scenario is to never expose an Anbox cloud service over the internet. Instead, use a proxy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Disable services on inactive instances. The ideal scenario is to never expose a service endpoint over the internet. Instead, use a proxy.
```

  Exposing service endpoints is typically required when the instance needs to communicate with the service. Design your deployment to allow the instance to reach out and communicate with the control plane.

- Do not set the `application.auto_update`, `instance.security_updates`, `container.security_updates` to `false`. These settings will disable automatic updates at the application or the instance level. See {ref}`ref-ams-configuration` for more information.

> - Monitor resources used by instances regularly.

Reviewer 2: Should we link to the now existing monitoring part of the docs?

(howto-harden)=
# How to harden your deployment

Anbox Cloud is designed with secure development practices but there are certain aspects to consider on your side to make sure the entire deployment is secure.

## General guidelines

Consider the following simple yet impactful measures to ensure that you run a secure Anbox Cloud deployment:

> - Always run the latest and supported version of Anbox Cloud. See {ref}`ref-release-notes`.

Reviewer 3: I feel like it'd be great if we could mention the `upgrade scenario` where people need to keep their deployment up to date?
If that stands,
```
Always run the latest and supported version of Anbox Cloud. See {ref}`ref-release-notes`.
```
->
```
Always run the latest supported version of Anbox Cloud and keep your deployment up to date.
 See {ref}`ref-release-notes`.
```

  Exposing service endpoints is typically required when the instance needs to communicate with the service. Design your deployment to allow the instance to reach out and communicate with the control plane.

- Do not set the `application.auto_update`, `instance.security_updates`, `container.security_updates` to `false`. These settings will disable automatic updates at the application or the instance level. See {ref}`ref-ams-configuration` for more information.

- Monitor resources used by instances regularly.

### 3 - AMC

Secure and back up the following folders on the Anbox Management Client (AMC) because they contain the TLS client certificate and key used to access the AMS API:

- `$HOME/snap/amc/current/client`
- `$HOME/snap/anbox-cloud-appliance/current/client`

### 4 - Stream gateway

- Expose endpoints only when required. When doing so, limit [API exposure](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/anbox-cloud/reference/api-reference/gateway-api/) by using a reverse proxy or a web application firewall.
  - `^/1.0/sessions/[a-zA-Z0-9-_:]+/sockets/(slave|adb)[/]?$` - This endpoint is required for streaming

>   - `^/1.0/sessions/[a-zA-Z0-9-_:]+/connect$` - This endpoint is required for seamless ADB support

Reviewer 3: To clarify, this has been the case for the appliance deployment, but not for charm-based deployments.

Author: I have added a statement to clarify this.

  No other endpoint is required to be exposed over the public network and can be used instead through internal services.

- You can [adjust how strict the API rate limiting](https://charmhub.io/anbox-stream-gateway/configurations#max_http_requests_per_second) must be configured for the gateway API endpoint.

> - Rotate authentication tokens used for the gateway API on a regular basis.

Reviewer 3: Since we've mentioned auth token rotation for the stream gateway, maybe we should follow the same principle for `share` as well and encourage people not to create long-lived shares. Instead, they should regularly extend the expiration period?
Just my two cents here

### 5- TURN/STUN

> Disable TURN support if it is not needed. TURN is only needed to handle clients with complicated firewall or NAT configurations. If your users don't require TURN, disable support for it in the [coturn charm configuration](https://github.com/canonical/anbox-cloud-charms/blob/main/charms/coturn/templates/turnserver.conf) by setting both `enable_udp_relay` and `enable_tcp_relay` to `false`.

Reviewer 3: @morphis, that requries some extra work for the end user.
E.g. 
1.  juju ssh coturn/0
2. edit the turn server config file
3. restart the turn server once it's done

Maybe we should provide a config item for this?

Author: @morphis Please confirm if the users are expected to know these steps detailed by Gary or if we have to list them here. Adding a config item for this can follow later, I don't think we should keep this PR open until we create a config item.

Reviewer 2: There is no manual change on the machines necessary, we have the appropriate options in the charm config, see https://charmhub.io/coturn/configurations#enable_tcp_relay

Reviewer 3: Ah, okay. Thanks for this

Keep in mind that irrespective of whether you are using STUN/TURN, using a public, externally hosted serve expands the attack surface. Hence consider using the built-in TURN/STUN server provided with the Anbox Cloud deployment for better security.

Alternatively you can also use an externally hosted STUN server and configure it as part of the [Anbox Stream Agent charm configuration](https://charmhub.io/anbox-stream-agent/configurations#extra_stun_servers). TURN is currently not supported to be externally hosted.

> To report a security issue, contact the [Ubuntu security team](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SecurityTeam/FAQ#Contact).

Reviewer: Right now this looks like it is inside section 5. Isn't this more general, though? Shouldn't it be in the general guidelines, or in related topics?
